---
{"dg-publish":true,"permalink":"/d3/","title":"D3","created":"2022-11-15T16:25:28","updated":"2022-12-12T02:16:54"}
---

> [!meta]-  
sup:: [[JS Package\|JS Package]]  
state::done
related:: [[EDAV\|EDAV]]

# D3

**D3.js**, short for Data-Driven Documents, is a [[JS Package\|JS Package]] for manipulating documents based on **data** and is well suited to interactive graphics.

In an [[HTML\|HTML]] file, we should add the link to D3 in the `<head>` element. And then write [[JavaScript\|JavaScript]] in the `<body>`.

```html
<head>
    <script src="https://d3js.org/d3.v7.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
    <svg width="500" height="300">  <!-- some SVG -->
        <rect x="20" y="20" width="460" height="260" fill="lightblue"></rect>
        <circle cx="200" cy="75" r="20" fill="blue"></circle>
        <ellipse cx="175" cy="100" rx="45" ry="30" fill="green"></ellipse>
        <text x="150" y="200">(150, 200)</text>
        <line x1="250" y1="150" x2="300" y2="200" stroke="red" stroke-width="5"></line>
    </svg>
    
    <script>
        // JavaScript / D3 will go here
    </script>
</body>
```

D3 helps us conveniently interact with the [[DOM\|DOM]]. Some basic commands (try them in the console of [[Developer Tools\|Developer Tools]]):

```js
d3.select("circle").attr("cx", "200");
d3.select("circle").attr("r", "30");
d3.select("circle").attr("fill", "red");
```

- [~] Effects of commands executed in the console will be gone after a refresh of the page.

As we can see, a basic D3 statement is a ~~combination~~ chain of D3 methods. Another example:

```js
d3.select("svg").select("circle").transition().duration(2000).attr("r", "50");
```

What the above example does is

1. select the first element targeted by [[CSS Selector\|CSS Selector]] `svg circle`
2. change the value of attribute `r` of the selected element to `"50"`
3. add a transition of 2000ms to the change

## Select Elements

Selecting elements in [[DOM\|DOM]] is the same as targeting elements using [[CSS Selector\|CSS Selector]].

- `.select(selector)` selects the **first** element targeted by `selector`
- `.selectAll(selector)` selects **all** elements targeted by `selector`

For a composite selector, for example, `svg#id1 circle.container`, we can use

- one `.select()`: `.select("svg#id1 circle.container")`;
- ~~or chaining `.select()`s: `.select("svg").select("#id1").select("circle").select(".container")`~~
- [!] The above line is wrong: chaining selects select **inside** the previous selected element. So `.select("svg").select("#id1")` returns empty.

We can store the selected elements in a variable/constant for future reference:

```js
const selection = d3.selectAll("circle")
```

- [!] Note that once a selection is stored to a variable, even if the elements in the selection are removed from the [[DOM\|DOM]], the selection contains those elements.
{ #qahtei}


## Change Attributes, Style, and Content

- `.attr(attrName, attrValue)` changes or sets the attribute `attr` of the element to `attrValue`
- `.style(styleName, styleValue)` changes or sets the style `styleName` of the element to `styleValue`
    - `style` is just a special attribute; thus `.style(styleName, value)` is just shorthand for `.attr("style", "styleName: value;")`
    - if there is a style rule and an attribute having the same name, the style rule takes precedence
{ #a62hhs}

- `.text("new content")` changes or sets the tag text content
- [~] to see the value of an attribute/style rule/text content, just leave the argument empty

With [[JS Function\|JS Function]]s, ~~especially [[JS Arrow Function\|JS Arrow Function]]s~~, we can easily modify the values of attributes/styles/content based on the original values.

- [!] It is actually not easy to get original values! One way is to use `this.getAttribute()`. However, `this` is different in a [[JS Arrow Function\|JS Arrow Function]] and a normal function. To make this work, we should use a **normal function**.

## Add and Remove Elements

- `.append(element)` adds an element **inside** the selected element, as the **last child**
{ #w6u5ai}

    - We can directly give the newly added element attributes, styles, and content using methods in [[D3#Change Attributes, Style, and Content\|#Change Attributes, Style, and Content]]
        - [@] `d3.select('svg').append('circle').attr('cx', '100').attr('r','30')`
- `.insert(type[, before])` adds an element inside the selected element, **before** the child `before`
    - If `before` is not specified, `.insert()` = `.append()`
    - Use [[CSS Selector#Adjacent Sibling Selector\|CSS Selector#Adjacent Sibling Selector]] `before + *`, the element is inserted **after** the child `before`
- [~] After `.append()` or `.insert()`, the selection will be the new element.
- `.remove()` removes the selected element
    - If the selector targets multiple elements, `.select(selector).remove()` will only remove the **first** element
    - Use `.selectAll(selector).remove()` to remove **all** the elements targeted by `selector`

## [[D3 Bind Data\|D3 Bind Data]]

## Data Function

D3 is powerful for manipulating documents based on **data**. Now we've learned how to bind data to elements; then we can manipulate these elements based on their data.

All the **DOM manipulation** methods introduced in previous sections, such as `.attr()`, `.style()`, `.text()`, `.append()`, etc., not only can take in a constant value, but also accepts **a function** as a parameter. This function is a **function of data**. The method will call the function using the bound data. To be exact, these parameters will be passed to the function

1. first argument `d`: data bound to the element
2. second argument `i`: index of the element
- Note that the selection will also be passed to the function as `this`

Then we can easily manipulate the elements based on their data using [[JS Arrow Function\|JS Arrow Function]]s as the functions of data. For example, to set the x-position of a circle to its data value:

```js
d3.select("circle").attr("cx", d => d)
// This is short for
d3.select("circle").attr("cx", function(d) {return d})
```
