---
{"title":"Geographic Coordinate","alias":"Latitude & Longitude","type":"note","created":"2022-11-10T19:15:08","modified":"2022-12-12T01:28:28","dg-publish":true,"sup":["[[EDAV\\|EDAV]]"],"state":"done","permalink":"/geographic-coordinate/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"updated":"2022-12-12T01:28:28"}
---


# Geographic Coordinate

Geographic coordinate uses **latitude and longitude** to locate a position.
Latitude and longitude are just like x-y axes, so you can build all kinds of graphs with them, like [[Scatterplot\|Scatterplot]] and [[Density Contour Plot\|Density Contour Plot]].

- <span class="alt-check alt-check-rmk">In a geographic coordinate, **latitude** comes first. But it is the north-south direction. Therefore, there is a cross between lat-long and x-y coordinates.
{ #5kd68p}
</span>

There are also some special graphs for geographic coordinate system, but with controversial performance, like

- [-] Radius Map: use a circle with a radius dependent on an additional variable to represent a dot
- [-] Push Pin Map: use a push pin icon to represent a dot

## Implementation

### ggmap

[[R Package\|Package]] `ggmap` can generate real-world maps. It is compatible with [[ggplot2\|ggplot2]], so you can easily add layers on top of the base map. Related functions:

- `get_stamenmap`: get a US map
    - can be zoomed using option `bbox`, `zoom`, and the latitude-longitude range of the area
- `get_googlemap`: get the map of the specified latitude-longitude range from Google map
- `ggmap`: render the map

### sf and tmap


<div class="transclusion internal-embed is-loaded"><a class="markdown-embed-link" href="/spatial-data/#sf-and-tmap" aria-label="Open link"><svg xmlns="http://www.w3.org/2000/svg" width="24" height="24" viewBox="0 0 24 24" fill="none" stroke="currentColor" stroke-width="2" stroke-linecap="round" stroke-linejoin="round" class="svg-icon lucide-link"><path d="M10 13a5 5 0 0 0 7.54.54l3-3a5 5 0 0 0-7.07-7.07l-1.72 1.71"></path><path d="M14 11a5 5 0 0 0-7.54-.54l-3 3a5 5 0 0 0 7.07 7.07l1.71-1.71"></path></svg></a><div class="markdown-embed">



## sf and tmap

[[R Package\|R Package]] `sf` is for reading shape files (`.shp`). To see the read map, use function `st_geometry()` and plot the returned object.

[[R Package\|R Package]] `tamp` is for plotting maps (generated by `sf`) together with other data. The general workflow is

1. Get the spatial data by reading the shape file using `sf`
2. Combine spatial data and other data
    - e.g. use `left_join()`
3. plot the combined data using `tmap`


</div></div>

